<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Table of Contents][TOC] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]**
  
</div>

---

## 1.2.3 Trust and Reliance 

What is trust? 

Trust is the assumption made by a person about another person's *intentions* being honest and good, instead of being treacherous or hypocritical. The internal desires and motivations of a person aren't observable to external onlookers. However, if an entity articulates their intentions, especially in a legal and binding contract, then expectations about said intentions being implemented, can be formulated by all concerned parties and observers. 

Therefore, the behaviors of an entity in comparison to their articulated intentions to behave in a particular way, can be measured by external observers as an indicator, and as a measure of *reliance.* Reliability of an actor is the frequency with which an expected behavior is repeatedly observed, with respect to assumed good intentions as the underlying motivational factor of the actor's observable behaviors. How observable behaviors are interpreted, is in turn, dependent on the trustworthiness and reliability of the observer. 

So, how trustworthy and reliable are persons like, diplomats, for example? 

Would you ever be able to rely on the pre-rehearsed diplomatic double-speak, regurgitated at you by a diplomat or by their staffers? One can imagine that diplomats need to be given immunity from prosecution in foreign lands because things some of them say, can be utterly vacuous and untrustworthy, compared to things they eventually end up doing. Clever career diplomats don't even let things stick to them, by ever being publicly noted as the responsible person who ends up doing anything dirty or risky. But what about staffers and proxy agents of those diplomats, who can get caught red-handed, while performing dirty deeds of their polite, yet, mortal masters? 

Risks inherent to an endeavor, are contingent upon the uncertainties intrinsic to available information pertaining to a given situation. Tasks performed under more uncertain situations, are simply more risky. Obtaining accurate and precise information to discern the level of risk posed to various stakeholders in a situation, is a challenging task in itself, especially in multi-cultural environments where people have a wide range of expectations about the outcomes from the situation at hand. 

None the less, diplomats and inter-agency liaisons have to be relied upon, for facilitating international conversations between seemingly disparate and opposing cultural groups, to bring clarity to evolving situations, and to encourage peaceful coexistence via binding resolutions. Adopting diplomacy is usually more economic, and less tedious, compared to: continuously participating in all-out ballistic warfare at multiple battlefronts. 

However, attempting to establish diplomatic ties right after launching into trade wars or armed conflicts, is disingenuous. And dishonest forms of diplomacy invariably lead to warfare. 

Readers of these articles are likely to have been keenly aware, that the concept of trust becomes more important in risky situations where people's lives, well being, habitats, and equity are at stake. For instance, how does one evaluate the trustworthiness of a witness in a courtroom, in front of a jury and a judge; compared to the trustworthiness of your relatives or a friend, in your home's living room, in front of several guests? Perhaps there is a set of more significant and dynamic factors, based in the social and physical circumstances of a scenario, or of an ecology, that directly lends to the trustworthiness and reliability of what people promise to do, compared to what they eventually, end up doing from their position and vantage point in a given situation. 

In short, trust is an assumption about intentions one (tacitly or explicitly) maintains about someone; and reliance is the openly observable physical act of cooperating with someone, regardless of whether that someone happens to be genuinely trustworthy or not. This is why I trust people by default and rely on them, wherein, the abuse I have to suffer in order for me to distrust them, is at a rather high threshold of repeated violations. Accidents of repentant persons can be forgiven and trustful relationships can be re-negotiated; but not violations committed by unrepentant obtuse persons. Especially forcefully murderous transgressions committed because of long-standing bigotry and prejudices, staunchly held by predatory transgressors, cannot be forgiven or forgotten so easily. 

<br>
<div align="center">

|Trust vs Reliance | Trustworthy | Untrustworthy |
|---: | :---: | :---: |
| **Reliable** | Do rely, and trust. | Do rely upon, but don't trust. |
| **Unreliable** | Don't rely upon, even when trusty. | Absolutely don't rely, and do not trust! |

<b>Table 3:</b> Having to rely upon someone or a system, that is notably untrustworthy, is seriously painful. 
</div>
<br>

1. Consistent and competent people who honestly state their intentions in a forthright manner, and then transparently follow through with their legitimate intentions, can be relied upon and trusted. 

1. Consistent and shrewd people with ulterior motives can be relied upon for certain outputs in the short-term, but still can't be trusted at any point in time because their outwardly superficial appearance, sooner-or-later, crumbles to dust. These are dishonorable pretentious cheats, who can be relied upon for committing sophisticated acts of fraud in a skilled manner. 

1. Inconsistent and incompetent, bumbling fools with good intentions, who are not to be given seats of authority or command, over any serious or significant matters. However, one may still decide to keep their friends close, their enemies closer, and their town's idiot the closest, because consulting a fool highlights which available options aren't foolish.[^1] 

1. Hapless dolts who possibly cannot decide on what they intend to do, and on how they would like to proceed in a given situation. They keep fumbling around and doodling in the dark, but somehow, end up with unusual power over others, even in matters concerning stately topics and issues. Most nations of the world are currently stuck within this category, when it comes to dealing with large-scale environmental problems due to climate change. 

From the above-mentioned definitions of trustworthiness and reliability, comes the idea of *credibility.* As a simple introspective exercise, one can evaluate if they happen to trust, or believe in themselves, that is, can a person make a promise to themselves and succeed in keeping that promise? Additionally, as a prospective exercise via circumspection, one can evaluate the credibility of public service units funded by tax-payer money, that happen to be duty-bound and regulated, via formal policies as well as clearly defined professional codes of conduct, protocols, and practices. The trust, or credence invested by people in household, commercial, industrial, military, and government based societal structures, is necessary for facilitating peaceful and productive daily living, of all human beings. 

So, did Canada breach my trust, and defile the credence I had reposed in its fiduciary organizations, that too, by using nefarious and fiendish tactics? Oh yes, it did. 

And when I say Canada, I mean the professional agencies and contracted agents of provincial as well as federal governments, and of various private organizations, operating in Canada. 

You see, I don't have anything against "the establishment" unless it is a colonialist establishment built upon supremacist ideologies. Nor am I against "elitism" prevalent in formal hierarchical governance structures, of any group of honest, and conscientious people. I am only against pretentious cheats, and systems that propagate corruption or oppression. 

>Pretentious cheats are bad, murderous goons are worse, and conniving fiends are the worst, in my humble opinion. 

A number of Canadian authority figures and their indoctrinated agents who colluded in harming me and my interests, have remained: dishonest, dishonorable, unpleasant, unapologetic, unrepentant, pretentious, treacherous, murderous, and insidiously fiendish, aside from being fiendishly insidious. 

Not paying reparations and abrogating remedies for human rights violations, as well as obstructing justice while causing attrition to victims and survivors of professional malfeasance, and of state-sponsored abuses, are only a few examples of ongoing violations being committed by Canada through its regulated as well as unregulated groups. 

I should also inform you that, I don't have to merely believe in myself, to know that I will make Canada pay, for its transgressions, trespasses, and offenses. Canada is to be held accountable, and made to pay for its vicious and surreptitious crimes against my family, and for crimes being committed against persons who have been, or are being targeted because of discriminatory prejudices engendered among Canadian state-sponsored agents and agencies, using every legal measures necessary. 

Penalties and censures that are to be enforced upon Canadian entities, are obviously contingent on the nature and magnitude of unmitigated violations and offenses having been, or being committed by them, against unassuming people. Those penalties and censures are most certainly not contingent on my lifespan, nor are they a function of my socio-economic status, or place of residence. 

Furthermore, Canadian state-sponsored agents trained to commit serial acts of terror and murder against — targeted persons and ethnic communities, decided to challenge my personhood via the abuse of their official powers and authority. Those Canadian agents who put me through torment and physical torture for weeks, asserted that they had a right to abuse persons like myself, specifically because of the powers and authority derived from Canada's statehood. Following that, they committed dastardly human rights violations, and pernicious activities against me and my family, out of xenophobia and systemic prejudices codified into policies and practices of Canadian institutions. In doing so, they handed me the right to challenge [Canada's statehood](./docs/0A.md#canadian-sovereignty-question-mark). 

Congratulations Canada, you will now have to continuously prove your legitimacy, integrity, reliability, and trustworthiness in being a worthwhile independent nation-state, to all conscientious beings and onlookers, in an international arena with rules of my choosing, and thereafter, of my successor. I designate all of humanity as my successor, in holding countries like Canada publicly accountable and transparent, and in keeping them strictly honest, in all of their communications and activities, for such time as any human made signs or symbols may exist anywhere in the universe. 

---

<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Top :arrow_up:][Top] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]** 
  
  **[Table of Contents][TOC]**

  [Prev]: ./01-02-02.md 
  [Top]: ./01-02-03.md#123-trust-and-reliance 
  [Next]: ./01-02-04.md 
  [TOC]: ../README.md#table-of-contents 
  
</div>

---

[^1]: I usually am [the fool](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/9/90/RWS_Tarot_00_Fool.jpg), in any town that I happen to be strolling about. 