<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Table of Contents][TOC] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]**
  
</div>

---

## 1.3 Daam

It's been a year since March 2023, and I haven't managed to write anything new in this section of the series of articles about Bhedh, Vedh, Daam, Dand, Saam. However, I finally decided that I ought to complete this section about "The Status Quo", one way or another. 

The concept of Daam (दाम) alludes to "the cost" of an offer, that each party would need to incur upon accepting and ratifying a deal through negotiations, that is, through bargaining. But, I don't have anything new to offer, to Canadian authority figures and government officials. The deal available to them, was laid out in [*"Appendix VI of The File."*](https://github.com/true-hindsight/grim-realities/blob/main/navigating-this-gitrepo.md#20-navigating-this-documentation) Whatever type of "a carrot or a stick" that I've had, was explained in *The File.* But then, I ran out of carrots, and the window of opportunity for availing any type of a new offer, has unfortunately, closed and ended. 

Here is an example of why I don't have anything new to offer, to pretentious cheats. 

There are certain Canadian officials in Kitchener-Waterloo Region of Ontario, who like to boast that Canada invented the concept of ["The Blue Bin"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blue_box_recycling_system) for recycling waste materials collected from households and offices. 

However, almost nothing that has ever been placed into a Blue Bin, in Canada, has ever been recycled, by Canada. Every day, for decades, almost all of it has ended up in landfills or incinerators within Canada, or has been shipped overseas to countries like China, Laos, Vietnam, Bangladesh, India, or Pakistan for being disposed. 

Of course, China stopped accepting nonsense and garbage from countries like Canada in 2016, for which Canada retaliated by extraditing Huawei's CFO to the US during US-China trade wars. And now, it's been eight years since that incident, while Canadian diplomats have yet to comprehend that the repercussions and consequences for threatening or messing with South and East Asians, can be rather severe. 

It can be observed that among Canadian voters, a culture of lying to each other and being pretentious, each-and-every day for decades, is the only thing keeping top Canadian officials in power. Such a wide-spread culture of self-deception, of shared delusion, and of pretense, is also keeping the Canadian public from realizing that all of them collectively, are promoting an utterly wasteful existence via industrial practices such as fracking, while blissfully barreling towards a completely bleak future, in an ever increasingly polluted Earth.  

Are Canadians ever going to be able to snap out of it? If [Louis C. K.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_C.K.) was a Canadian and if he cared to, then maybe, he could have helped Canadians, by trying to generate more awareness among his viewers about such issues, through his artful presentations and performances. However, it seems likely that a majority of Canadians (similar to a majority of denizens in Commonwealth Countries) will never realize that, feigning and pretending to doing their part for preserving the ecology, by tossing waste materials into dysfunctional recycling programs on a daily basis, will only continue to harm Canada's denizens and pollute the rest of the world. By the way, those government subsidized, waste management and recycling programs have continued to increasingly degrade soil, air, and water profiles of North America, especially in the Arctic regions where endangered species are being pushed towards extinction by callous human activities. 

Similarly, healthcare professionals throughout Canada have continued to peddle highly narcotic drugs like Zyprexa through forced prescriptions (see, *Appendix I and II of The File*), to tens of thousands of young and elderly patients in need of treatment for "grogginess" from issues like sleep apnea, each year; even though that drug is not at all a viable pharmaceutical intervention for lethargy or sleep apnea. Zyprexa (olanzapine) is especially not an appropriate drug for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease or memory issues among elderly patients. But somehow, its popular use in long-term care and nursing homes for subduing the elderly, has caused it to become a popular psychotropic medication prescribed to young individuals for a wide variety of healthcare needs, even though that drug has never been approved for those types of ailments, especially not among younger demographics. 

More often than not, fatigue and listlessness due to Vitamin D deficiency, or due to other physiological and anatomical issues not related to psychiatry, are mislabeled and misdiagnosed by physicians in Ontario as "depression"; and when a person overcomes their lethargy due to better nutrition, exercise, and sleep for a few days of a month, but then fails to maintain their daily routine because of chronic malnutrition or metabolic issues, the physicians mischaracterize and misdiagnose that phase of the person's behavioral outlook as "mania." One of the worst endemic problems plaguing Canadian healthcare systems, is the way in which,

>improperly educated healthcare professionals wrongfully ascribe mental health diagnoses such as "bipolar disorder" or "schizophrenia", to young and elderly individuals, especially to those who happen to have diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds, to then forcibly and wrongfully prescribe inappropriate drugs such as olanzapine, and various benzodiazepines. 
>
>Many Canadian physicians have continued to commit such fraudulent activities and medical malpractices for decades, without prioritizing the use of physiological and biomedical tests to evaluate patients' health, because, over-prescribing unnecessary and expensive pharmacological interventions and medical procedures based on cursory observations, makes more money for each of the corporate entities involved in the Canadian healthcare system. Those wrongful prescriptions only cause further complications among patients due to a wide range of awful side effects, because of which, more expensive and harmful drugs or medical procedures are thrust upon the individual, till the targeted person dies from pernicious effects of those illegitimate interventions. 

Thousands of elderly and young individuals subjected to medical malpractices each year, in Canada, have no affordable legal recourse to protection or for obtaining any kind of remedies from being harmed and injured by incompetent or malicious healthcare providers. This is because once those victims are snared, stripped of basic human rights, and harmed by the government sponsored healthcare system, all of the outcries and protests put forth by any of the survivors and victims, are only further pathologized as "symptoms of mental-health diseases", to then peddle more drugs via forced prescriptions. 

Moreover, bad-faith actors within those education or healthcare facilities, where victims keep getting abused, are entirely aware of, "how to game the system", so as to evade being caught by authorities while committing surreptitious acts of violence or harassment. Most cunningly and in a cruel manner, information about legal rights and how to gain access to a legal representative, is conveniently hidden or entirely removed from public view, within corridors of education and healthcare facilities in Ontario, so that involuntarily detained persons within those settings, simply cannot voice their concerns to any regulatory authorities, during their illegitimate detention. 

For emphasis, it must be reiterated here:

>The overall legal system of a region becomes corrupted, when the organizational culture inculcated among groups of state-regulated bodies and units that are constituted under the directives of a provincial or a federal judiciary, becomes completely polluted by problematic system-wide policies and bigoted practices. In such corrupt systems, blame is instead thrust upon targeted victims who are typically falsely implicated, investigated, arrested, illegitimately detained, and then tortured. Such malpractices are especially orchestrated through the use of fabricated evidence, during their arrest, and subsequent mistreatment. Worse, while the victims continue to be targeted and then abused, authority figures and supervisors frequently decide to willfully turn a blind-eye to the flaws and errors generated by the state's hired or certified professionals, who are otherwise in-charge of conducting investigations, audits, and making critical decisions or legal judgments on behalf of the judiciary. 
>
>As such, the overall "peace, safety, security, and law enforcement system", repeatedly fails to demonstrably adhere to its publicly espoused principles of providing fair, equitable, conscientious, just, and uniform application of proper legal frameworks, to all natural persons and groups of individuals, within its jurisdiction. Worst of all, the overall corrupt behavior coordinated across bad law enforcement and public service units, due to duplicitous and erroneous practices adopted by their professional members, continues to result in a range of pernicious harms and damages being inflicted upon <ins>selectively targeted</ins> community members, and particularly upon vulnerable individuals such as the elderly, female ethnic minorities, or orphaned youth and children.   
>
>The problematic issues resulting from corruption can also be observed among the behaviors of other public-facing institutions like healthcare, education, business, religious, and government services providers. Those problems are entirely due to the beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors of the employees and contractors belonging to poorly maintained institutions. The corrupt organizational culture of those publicly equipped entities, along with the deleterious outcomes evidenced from the coordinated activities of bad employees and contractors, is almost never called into question, or suspected of resulting from the institute's systemic flaws and errors. Instead, blame and suspicion are cast upon the motives and traits of an individual newcomer who is expected to "assimilate", and to fit into the box of cultural norms and behaviors of existing members belonging to those dysfunctional yet, state-regulated organizations. This fundamental problem as well as the devastating harms inflicted by it, upon innocent members of the public, have only been increasing year-over-year, throughout provinces like Ontario, Canada. (And also in places like Ranga Reddy District, Telangana, India.) 

The ongoing, systematic violations thrust upon thousands of innocent individuals and groups of people by public-service professionals and their contractors in Canada (or India or any other Commonwealth Country), particularly upon groups of minorities and dissidents via the politically motivated abuse of healthcare standards and practices, is incorrigibly woeful, and absolutely wretched. Such vile methods of snaring victims with false pretexts, misdiagnoses, medically induced harms, and then profiteering from wrongfully prescribed medicines and medical procedures, need to be brought to a permanent end.  

The falsehoods, and deceptive standards and practices baked into industries and societies of Canada (and other Commonwealth Countries), have primarily existed for enriching a few North American and West European corporations, through illegitimate profits obtained by heavily exploiting multiple generations of vulnerable and innocent groups of unassuming denizens in Commonwealth Countries. 

How then, can anybody ever trust the leaders and mangers under whose purview, all of such misdeeds and violations have been carried out continuously for decades on a daily basis, throughout provinces like Ontario? Worst of all, such large-scale organized crimes are still ongoing, without any signs of abatement. So, I ask once again, 

>**"How can those leaders and managers who have allowed millions of individuals to be systematically harmed under their very own watchful eyes, ever be trusted during any kind of a negotiation or a conference, by any sincere, caring, and conscientious being?"** 


---

<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Top :arrow_up:][Top] | Next Section :arrow_right:** 
  
  **[Table of Contents][TOC]**

  [Prev]: ./01-02-09.md
  [Top]: ./01-03.md#13-daam
  [Next]: ./
  [TOC]: ../README.md#table-of-contents
  
</div>