<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Table of Contents][TOC] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]**
  
</div>

---

## 1.2.2 Falsifiability

In common and legal parlance, the act of "falsifying something", alludes to actions performed by dishonest entities in producing counterfeit outputs, for misguiding or misleading decision makers. In this sense, something that cannot be falsified preserves its authenticity against all efforts to make its fake replicas, where the replicated items or models can have intentional or unintentional fudging, and discernible infidelity with respect to the original entity. Therefore, something that cannot be falsified is a worthy standard or a datum, in this particular linguistic sense of falsifiability.

However, in scientific discourse involving *design of experiments,* "falsifying a posited hypothesis" alludes to the act of discovering and analyzing a permutation of factual pieces of evidence, to prove or disprove the applicability of the main hypothesis being tested in comparison to the entire set of *conjugate* hypotheses, within the scope of a given *state space of variables.* Often, the main hypothesis is labeled as "the null hypothesis", and the entire set of statements or facts that form the conjugate of the null hypothesis is labeled as "the alternative hypothesis." Careful experimenters in physical sciences deliberately fashion a test bed of physical factors, to evaluate modal values of a single control variable with respect to the test conditions, wherein the Alternative hypothesis usually contains a single statement instead of a large number of combinations of a variety of possible claims. On the other hand, researchers who are not so careful, and not so scientific, use the word "hypothesis", to allude to any speculations, guesses, assumptions, or suspicions. Such careless, and carefree researchers and investigators also tend to use the word "theory", to describe the consequences of their series of guess work eventually becoming valid and true, in their own, unscientific and erring eyes. 

Researchers and investigators who aren't familiar with the mathematics and physics of "signal detection and analysis", usually tend to be associated with fields of humanities involving linguistic, historical, political, psychological, behavioral, and social studies. In such fields of studies, researchers make use of scientific sounding words in their published literature, in order to mask disingenuous, unscientific practices and models; additionally, such a systemic issue is a rather frequently occurring cultural phenomenon, across institutes in industrialized as well as industrializing nations. Now, what would be the 'alternative hypothesis' of the claim made in the previous statement?  

Putting satire aside, in all possible linguistic usages of the concept of falsification, a sense of evaluating truth versus falsehood is invoked, when a statement is posited. Evaluating the validity of a statement using scientific methods becomes especially important, when the ambiguity or uncertainty in resolving the truthfulness of a serious claim (or a statement) is palpably high; and when the consequences of not arriving at a precise as well as an accurate result from disambiguation, in a timely manner, is imminently to result in a sizable range of losses, and damages, being suffered by living beings. 

Given the importance of the task of validating claims in the arena of legal and scientific discourse, let us now focus on the way falsification is used from a physics and mathematics perspective, in reference to the philosophy of science subscribed to by Westernized communities. The idea that only rigorously falsifiable statements produce worthwhile scientific discussions which, lead to societal progress, was popularized by [Karl Popper](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karl_Popper) (apparently he has been made Sir Karl Popper). 

In the Popperian approach to defining viable methods and aims of "science", it is asserted that any worthwhile scientific or technological discovery only comes from testing the research and development work conducted by one group of people, against that of another group working on resolving the very same set of ambiguities (or uncertainties). Promoters of Popperian views have continued to categorize the collective anthropological endeavors made by different groups of people, spanning across the globe and all of human history, as humanity's efforts towards incremental societal progress through competition among world's populations. Supporters of Popperian ideologies thus argue that the socio-economic and political achievements, derived from labors undertaken by competing as well as adversarial groups, drives all possible progress and advancements in humanity's overall state of existence. 

Colonialists have continued to assert discriminatory distinctions between groups and races of people, by co-opting (Sir) Popper's views on skepticism, as well as his views on the driving factors for humanity's progress. They have also hijacked Darwin's theories on biological evolution of species, by aggressively promoting the falsehoods contained in ["Social Darwinism,"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Darwinism) as a justification for continuously increasing their predatory and adversarial activities, especially ones conducted against indigenous peoples and marginalized communities. Often, their reasons for conducting belligerent violence and pernicious activities against targeted persons, are conducted in the name of propagating scientific progress and geopolitical stability, throughout the world. Colonialists have also popularized biased definitions of science, and of anthropological evolution, through contorted interpretations of Popperian and Darwinian philosophies. Communications and multi-media content produced by colonialists and supremacist, attempt to explain why populations in some countries have remained superstitious and poor, while people in other industrialized countries have progressed towards becoming more 'rationally scientific' and rich. Thus, typecasting different groups of people across the globe, into a gradient of *"first, second, and third world countries",* has continued to be a popular method for rationalizing genocidal activities taken up by colonial institutes, and organizations; especially for 'weeding out' unwanted people from their colonial "sphere of influence." 

In colonial worldview, unsophisticated people who mostly rely on superstitions and truisms which cannot be scientifically tested, i.e. ideas and statements that cannot be falsified, are to be weeded out for wasting precious resources that could have been better utilized by people of first world countries. The colonial worldview also holds that, crude and barbaric people remain insecure under-achievers, who only begrudge and yet, violently covet, the riches of scientific nations, due to jealousy. Theology cannot be falsified, so theology is simply unscientific, and by extension of religious thought being labeled as unscientific, it is irrational or even entirely bogus. For the technocratic colonialist, the only weapon against all evil which stems from ignorance like theology and religious precepts, is the exercise of 'scientific and rational thinking.' For colonialists, promoting and evangelizing Western rational thinking, is the only method for vanquishing the darkness that festers in the 'insane' minds and hearts of ignoble peoples, who must be 'sanitized', for preserving the best interests of 'all of humanity.'

While playing on the age-old tussle between science versus religion, and by projecting the 'indisputable authority' of their cultural heroes like (Sir) Karl Popper, and [Daniel Kahneman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Kahneman), colonial institutes have continued to promote the narrative and lore, about the ways in which their reliance on falsifiable precepts has given them the necessary scientific and technological supremacy, to rule over the unscientific plebes and cretins of this universe. Even non-fiction as well as fiction based work, produced by the likes of [(Sir) Salman Sushdie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salman_Rushdie), have continued to promote the idea that any cannon of text can be trivialized or caricatured for literary purposes, and for the sake of practicing liberal arts; but mostly with colonial motivations for questioning, and casting doubt on the validity of socio-political frameworks being used by communities originating from the global South, and the global East. 

Non-fiction as well as fiction based literature promoted by colonial institutes, have continued to belittle Southern and Eastern cultures, by constantly attempting to invalidate the concept of "sacred norms and precepts", and by thoroughly trivializing the sanctity of holy scriptures that happen to be sacred to non-Euro-centric cultures of the world. In countries like Briton and Canada, theological belief systems adopted by non-Anglican faith groups, have continued to be pathologized by various state-sponsored entities and private organizations. Furthermore, colonial institutes and alliances still assert that, it is incumbent upon them to protect and propagate their superior form of rational, aesthetic, and scientific approach towards daily living, and towards maintaining globalized state-craft, 'for making the world a better place.' This type of rhetoric constitutes the central dogma adopted by imperial and predatory entities, for deploying colonial forces to uproot 'superstition', by forcibly intervening in an invasive manner, especially for 'rectifying the dysfunctions of governments in countries with backwardly and jealous, diminutive peoples.' 

Colonial armed forces and interventionists, have continued to overtly and covertly supplant institutes within 'emerging and third world economies', for the purposes of establishing the rule of "scientifically vetted common laws built upon a system of 'universal values'." Colonialists frequently claim that their brutal and sly methods of snatching resources and equity from around the world, while repressing indigenous populations, have always been and are still justifiable, in order to elevate the socio-economic situation of 'stubbornly crude, wild, uncivilized and barbaric nations.' 

For colonialists and supremacists, not intervening in the societal functions of institutions in "under-developed and undeveloped economies", will impede the progress, or even threaten the existence of humanity as a whole. Worst of all, not colonizing economically languishing nations of 'the realm', will most certainly deteriorate the magnificent glory, and 'the global cultural dominance' earned by supreme leaders of first world nations, while making their countries 'great (again)'. The glorious feats achieved by the leaders of 'the democratic free world', via their arduous sacrifices made towards 'scientific governance' of globalized economies, while strictly maintaining "the international, rules based world order", cannot be allowed to decline, by abandoning "the 'noble chore' of colonizing 'lawless frontiers' of this universe." 

So, let us falsify falsifiability. By Karl Popper's definition of falsifiable statements, a statement that cannot be shown to be false by conditions stipulated under at least one worldview, is said to be non-falsifiable. Also, non-falsifiable statements usually cannot be be ratified or reified, via empirical tests. Consequently, according to supporters of Popper's views, non-falsifiable statements are unscientific and are unworthy of being evaluated by scientific methodologies. Therefore, if we posit that, "only falsifiable statements are scientific" as the null hypothesis, then the task of falsifying it would require us to show that there exists at least one statement which is demonstrably scientific and true, under *all* conceivable worldviews. In our "thought experiment", we can simply thrust the idea that mathematical axioms cannot be false under any conceivable worldview, wherein those axioms form the basis for being able to generate a worldview in the first place, and then be done with it, but we will dwell into this topic of falsifying falsifiability, a bit more rigorously, for the purposes of being sound and scientific. 

Take for example, the statement that, "a point is a geometric object that has no further parts." There is no empirical method to find such a mathematical object in its material form that is somehow tangible, and isn't entirely abstract, with respect to human sense and sensibilities. Such a statement and definition about the concept of a point, forms the basis of all geometry! We have just now shown that the entirety of the mathematical field and human experience known as geometry, is built upon and relies on: <ins>a non-falsifiable statement.</ins> So any of us who has ever done anything even remotely related to geometry, must be an unscientific moron, to have relied on the 'superstition' of mathematical principles and axioms, right? 

Even mathematical theorems derived from axioms are not falsifiable and yet, they are not categorized as nonobjective and unscientific knowledge, by any measure of objectivity and factual truthfulness, because they are necessary building blocks for evaluating the rest of human knowledge acquired in the name of science or anything else. 

Hence, should we bother to retain the null hypothesis that only falsifiable statements are scientific? As proven from the above discussion using 'a highly economical thought experiment', we can confidently reject the viewpoint encapsulated via the given null hypothesis. The alternative hypothesis that some statements which are markedly non-falsifiable, are indeed scientific and even necessary for having a scientific discourse, can be adopted without reservations of any kind. Yes, our day-to-day lives depend on absolutes that can never be proven to be wrong or false, under any humanly conceivable circumstances. Now isn't that swell, and simply Grand? 

Also, we can now say that falsifiability is falsifiable. Cheers! 

---

<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Top :arrow_up:][Top] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]** 
  
  **[Table of Contents][TOC]**

  [Prev]: ./01-02.md
  [Top]: ./01-02-02.md#122-falsifiability
  [Next]: ./01-02-03.md
  [TOC]: ../README.md#table-of-contents
  
</div>