<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Table of Contents][TOC] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]**
  
</div>

---

## 1.2.6 Most Fundamental of All Conceptions

Could there be such a thing that is the foundational building block, common to all conceivable life forms, environments, realms, sciences, arts, humanities, religious customs, crafts, and psychical expressions? 

The above-mentioned question is often stated in terms of discussions regarding things that are "ontic versus epistemic." Ontic things in the universe are supposed to be those things, that have always existed independently, as essential and necessary components of the universe, without the need of any human intervention. In contrast to ontic things, epistemic things are supposed to be concepts that exist only, due to "the human mind." 

Is God ontic or epistemic, or do such qualities simply not apply to God? Is the ground below your feet due to ontic facets of the universe, or only due to perceptions of your mind, and your mind alone? 

You might have, or will come across people who subscribe to hardcore epistemology, who tend to assert that all aspects of the universe, are only possible due to a generative function of the human mind, for each human being; and that the universe along with all of its contents as well as history, ceases to exist, for the human being who dies. Such a self-centered epistemological view, devalues and denies the importance of all future generations of human beings and other living creatures. This worldview can also allow an ego-centric person to grant themselves every freedom, to do as they please, without considerations for the safety and well being of any other entity, and without a second thought given to any ideas of what might be good versus bad, legal versus illegal, valid versus invalid, honest versus dishonest, legitimate versus illegitimate, earnest versus stolen, or authentic versus inauthentic. 

For those who would like to assert that there is something-or-the-other in this universe, that is ontic, and has been the basis of things like the human mind or the human soul, to begin with, would have to say so, while ignoring the argument that such assertions could ultimately be merely, epistemic. Personally, I am able to ignore deep-end epistemology and view that a variety of things in the universe are ontic, including "diversity", in and of itself. Diversity as an ontic process in the universe, can very well gives rise to an ever evolving universe, even whether only I think of it as such, or not.  

Is there an essence to each and every aspect of existence? At least the basic quality of existence must persist within that which is existent, shouldn't it? Different philosophical answers and viewpoints to such questions give rise to different types of mutually incompatible, dogmas, religions, religious denominations, sects, factions, schools, doctrines, and cults. But more importantly, they give rise to irreconcilable legal frameworks. 

Analytical concepts that form the bare minimum statutory text of a law within a speech community, aren't within themselves, "the universal law applicable to all human beings throughout the universe"; nor are they sufficient tests for any kind of a misstep, misconduct, foul play, or a misdemeanor, even within the speech community where they happen to be popular due to putative customs and norms followed by indoctrinated community members. The adjoining context gained from current sciences, humanities, arts, literature, jurisdictional constraints, as well as verifiable conditions pertaining to linguistic, geo-political, socio-economic, and physical circumstances faced by parties involved in a legal case, collectively form the structural scaffolding that provides grounding and basis for legalized texts to be applied to the given case, by competent investigators, adjudicators, and legislators. Without such scaffolding, all concepts of legal discourse would only dangle within the empty vacuum of nothingness!  

Misrepresentation of the necessary scaffolding that upholds legal precepts within a community, as "superfluous baggage", is a cheap psychological trick, employed by educators in Westernized law schools, to sneakily peddle the bigoted objectives of colonial land-lords and mercantile factory owners belonging to a bygone era, into the hands and ears of unsuspecting students. 

Is there some kind of a pristine or a purely analytical form, of legal precepts, that can stand on its own without anthropological scaffolding? Sure, it might exist on the other side of death, wherein, absolute annihilation and extinction of all humanoid civilizations, on the timescale of eons, turns into the proper equalizer which removes all possible anthropomorphic considerations, to yield the ultimate edifice of a pure universe, unsullied by any humanly misconceptions, machinations, toxins, and pollutants. But that timescale of eons, isn't practical nor pragmatic, for the purposes of engineering and managerial sciences.  

So, what is the maximum size of "a community" that can fruitfully practice legal actions for its ecologically sustainable progress? Most probably something known as "the international community of global citizens" would be the current maximum size of a speech community, especially in matters concerning international telecommunications, commerce, trade, and travel. 

There wasn't a thing known as a globalized community in the 17th Century (Common Era), when there were no such things called telecommunications satellites, and global-scale cyber-warfare conducted at the pace of nano-seconds. In that bygone era, even the definition of a second, and that of the [shape of the planet Earth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geoid), were utterly ambiguous and up for theological debate (instead of scientific discourse). So then, why are we still jostling with a hangover from colonial era laws and racist precepts derived from mythologies of the Mediterranean region, in the 21st Century? Euro-centric, medieval and colonial era worldviews have simply continued to influence modern-day populations because theories of law, eventually boil down to ideas like: ownership of rights through primacy, or via brute-force dominance. 

So, let's exit that ugly and unhealthy hangover, using the most potent concept available to human beings in current day-and-age, called, "entropy." 

Entropy in statistical mechanics came to be defined as the measure of how independent a sub-component of an "ensemble system" is, from other parts of the ensemble system. The countable "degrees of freedom", of an average group or cluster of sub-components, of a given system, was defined as the system's entropy, by Boltzmann. Eventually a person called Shannon decided that the expected rate of change of degrees of freedom, of interacting sub-systems would be a better definition of "entropy." More importantly, measure of entropy from Shannon's definition, required that the observer measuring the entropy of coupled sub-systems, was also somehow, endowed with sufficient degrees of freedom, to be able to note the rates of change of, degrees of freedom within the overall continuum of, "system-observer interactions." 

This means that, the observer and the given system being observed, are together, coupled (or entangled) parts of a larger group of evolving sub-systems, which have sufficient degrees of freedom to facilitate "unambiguous information transfer" between the observer, and that which is being observed. But more importantly, such a definition of entropy implies that there is no such thing as chaos in the meta-physical sense of that word, there is only order, and then, yet another order, in the combinatorial sense of ordered arrangements of codifiable things. 

Shannon's definition of entropy is in some ways, smarter that Boltzmann's definition, because Shannon entropy allows one to explain that: observing passage of time, as well as being able to note the consequences of something's acceleration towards a particular direction, when measuring time and direction with respect to "an inertial frame of reference", requires that frame of reference to undergo movements (reconfiguration) within some other, larger inertial frame of reference, which can facilitate the necessary number of physical degrees of freedom, so as to allow the nested frames of reference to undergo physical movements as well as thermodynamic changes. Einstein's formulations allow one to measure those degrees of freedom, to map the undulations within larger-and-larger inertial frames of reference (including galactic sized ones), and to also calculate how information transfer can occur, between different inertial frames of reference moving along different vectors with different rates of acceleration, relative to each other. 

However those formulations don't work so well at the picometer and femtometer scale, because somehow empirical evidence indicates that movement of tiny things, conveniently named as quarks, nested as sub-components in a system such as a proton or a neutron, can at times, dominate and override the predicted behavior of a beam of protons or neutrons, when observing that single beam as a system being accelerated within a stable electromagnetic field. Predicting how a beam of electrons or photons is going to behave in the same electromagnetic field in which protons or neutrons are accelerated, becomes even more probabilistic and non-deterministic in empirical studies, compared to theoretical expectations. All of those kinds of observations tends to upset certain types of physicists who would like to make beams of electrons or photons behave according to their personal intuition, of how things ought to be in the universe with pre-specified degrees of freedom, stipulated by using "the force" of their humanly "willpower." 

The least number of degrees of freedom a physical system can have, is when its temperature is at zero Kelvin, with respect to its environment. But it turns out, it is not feasible for any entity to have absolute zero thermodynamic temperature, even in the form of a black-hole in deep space. This is because physical things tend to have some type of movement and interactions with their surroundings, as well as with their internal components. And, mostly due to those motions and interactions: probabilistic forms of thermal, gravitational, nuclear, and electromagnetic properties abound each portion of the universe. 

Having said that, [negative thermodynamic temperatures in Kelvin scale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Negative_temperature#Heat_and_molecular_energy_distribution) are achievable, and are hotter than the hottest observable positive value of recorded temperatures of any object, in absolute Kelvins. For example, low thermodynamic temperatures above zero Kelvin, of a clump of Potassium-39 atoms can be recorded, by virtue of excitable electrons moving from low energy states available in the atoms, to even lower energy bands. The movements of electrons within the atoms tend to settle or condense, into the lowest possible thermal equilibrium with respect to its cold environment. Whereas, high thermodynamic temperatures greatly above zero Kelvin, in the same clump of atoms can be recorded, when a large and concentrated flux of energy imparted to the atoms, causes their electrons to move between the highest and lowest "excitation states" available, as the electrons *irradiate* the gained energy in the form of electromagnetic waves to a colder environment. During such transitions, the atoms' electrons migrate from the highest to the lowest possible excitation states, by traversing all intermediate excitation bands. However, if the excited electrons are confined only to the higher energy bands of excitation, by using strong electromagnetic fields, while imparting increasing amounts of concentrated energy flux to the atoms, the recorded thermodynamic temperatures can be logically mapped, only to the negative region of the absolute Kelvin scale. In this manner, increasing the energy imparted to a system, doesn't necessarily "increase the Boltzmann entropy" of the system, especially when the *enthalpy* of the system can be adjusted while forcing sub-components like electrons to become confined to higher excitation states, in a system such as a clump of Potassium-39 atoms. 

The aforementioned bit of knowledge about negative thermodynamic temperatures in absolute Kelvin scale, isn't merely to elate you with the possibility that some type of a "physics law" has been broken by using certain technical methods, even though zero Kelvin is still a discontinuity within the continuum of absolute thermal temperatures. The use of flipping a system between negative and positive thermal temperature, in the context of magnetic resonance of particular atoms, is useful in spectroscopy of things, that is, identifying the signature resonant frequency of certain materials. Doing such experiments is also fun when playing around with lasers for generating pulse modulated signals for extremely long distance, distortion-free, high-bandwidth communication. This kind of physics is also useful in nuclear fission and fusion research. 

>Now, wouldn't it be useful to have more number of scientists and engineers working on nuclear fission and fusion research, for clean electrical energy production, instead of having them pre-occupied with building weaponry with their highly sought after scientific acumen, mathematical aptitude, and diligent work ethics? 

Let's also include a statement from a famous person called Newton, in this discussion of foundational sciences. Newton articulated his observations about how there can be no such thing as an isolated vector of acceleration, without the accelerated mass being somehow coupled with other vectors of acceleration, of other bodies having properties of massiveness. Precise formulations of "how" masses are coupled to each other within a span of space-time, as articulated by Newton, were improved upon over the years, by including viscosity and other properties of the medium within which, interacting masses happen to be present. 

What is the fundamental thing that imparts massiveness to other physical things? That kind of a question leads to very exotic and esoteric sciences, where scientists talk about sub-atomic things like "muons", randomly bobbing in and out existence, indicating that information can be destroyed, even though mass and energy can't be simultaneously destroyed, or converted into some other third thing. Well, maybe eventually it will be discovered that things in the universe being explained via ideas such as "dark matter", and "dark energy", could be yet another phase of physical matter other than solid, liquid, gas, and plasma. I still haven't decided if sols, gels, colloids, an non-Newtonian fluids ought to be discussed in the gamut of categorizing matter based on its density and phase-transition energies. 

So what can be done with this kind of knowledge? Well, all sorts of codes, tools, housing, vehicles, clothing, and armaments can be created to re-enforce primacy and dominance of those who possess honestly well-built artifacts. How important and useful do you think numbers for the sake of numbers, sequence of numbers in space as collections of glyphs or geometric objects, as well as arrangement of numbers in space-time as frequencies can possibly amount to, for any given community of thinkers and doers? 

However, none of that philosophy or knowledge from physical sciences, can even come close to explaining the expected traits of a "persona", and answering questions about what gives rise to "volition", and "personhood." Is human volition or human "spirit" to be taken as ontic? Was your individual soul or spirit, encoded within the universe, even before you materialized after the fusion between a sperm and an ovum? Did you, genuinely, manifest yourself to be born, using your willpower that was floating around in some Nth dimension of the universe? And if you could do that, you deliberately chose to be born as a serf or a slave? Why? 

It used to be the case that the psychological, political, and socio-economic hold that theological leaders had on a population, determined the wellness and even drove the progress, of that bewitched population. Almost all of those things changed when somebody at some point in history discovered that, the accepted social norms and religious precepts governing a society, could be made secondary to the might and currency of metallic weapons and secretive arts. Subsequently, we have long since moved into a newer era, that has been dictated by the might and currency of polymeric or synthetic materials, derived from petrochemicals and other fossil fuels. Cast systems, classism, and sexism has somehow persisted throughout the previous millennia. But now warfare has become far more ballistic, explosive, and vicious, compared to thousands of years of human history, especially due to weaponized synthetic biology, and due to the use of unmanned, automated weapons platforms deployed within every available medium of existence. With today's military technologies, thousands of people can be killed per hour continuously for months, at the low, low cost of a dime, per human killed or permanently disabled. 

Various communities have naturally progressed into an even more advanced era wherein, any type of energy transduction or momentum transfer is seen as evidence of physical information transfer; where the concept of "physical information" in bits and bytes is the substrate of the universe, underlying space-time; and the observations of the rate of any type of information transfer, is measured in units of (giga) electron-volts, for convenience. Warfare among advanced, adversarial communities has also progressed into the global-scale cybernetic realm, with real-time weaponized forms of highly destructive communication and miscommunication being exchanged, by opposing threat actors. Other communities that have been left behind in the frantic race towards becoming a Super Power, are caught in the crossfire of geo-political skirmishes, but they haven't perished yet. 

Each currently existing community has found its own way of prioritizing its resources for achieving a stable, and a peaceful state of living while defending its desired way of existence. However, as long as there are supremacists and colonialists seeking to enslave human beings and capture all forms of resources, or to push humans into serfdom to take undue advantage of subdued people, by depriving them of basic human rights, no household in this world can ever have any sane measure of peace, for any worthwhile span of time. 

Slaves and serfs will merely have to settle for a substandard notion of peace and livability, upon being thrust under the yolk of a mortal master, or a "supreme leader", while suffering the consequences of the wrongful deeds carried out by culture carriers, and henchmen, of the so-called supreme leader. There have been no forms of societal norms and customs, that willful wrongdoers cannot eventually rip apart, nor are there ones that forceful or coercive wrongdoers will not attempt to break, in their personal pursuit of attaining absolute power and supremacy. However, even supremacists cannot break natural laws that constrain their physical existence. At worst, they can only try to prevent other snared people from attaining emancipation and particular degrees of freedom, that would allow for peaceful co-existence in a sustainable ecology; an existence without any persons resorting to guile or belligerence, for getting away with their wretched acts of cruelty, torture, sexual harassment, debasement, torment, murder, assault, trespass, fraudulence, extortion, theft, sabotage, subterfuge, treachery, or treason. 

### 1.2.6.1 The most excellent persona's fabulous world 

The most exceptional and excellent version of a human being, could quite possibly, transcend every nation's laws and conventions, to exist above and beyond any conception of societal norms. However, from this style of reasoning, there could also exist such A Being, that is Ultimate, and has already constrained the entirety of the universe, via physical laws that govern every aspect of nature, including that of human beings who can only live, within natural microcosms. 

Infinitesimally small physical building blocks arranged along multiple dimensions of space-time, that generate an infinitely vast universe, is thus, entirely feasible and real. However, such a universe need not be expanding, nor does it need to abide by any humanly assumptions of mono-genesis. Big Bang is one such idea based on the assumption of mono-genesis, which states that the universe we exist in, has came from a single point mass, and has been expanding ever since its creation from that point mass started. Where was that point mass located just before and during the so-called Big Bang, is a question that upsets people enamored by the creationism myth of ["The Big Bang."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_Bang#Misconceptions) 

The universe could very well have come into existence from multiple point sources giving rise to super clusters and [galaxy filaments](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galaxy_filament), separated by much larger distances than what can be observable, from within any conceivable galaxy. Also, the "Cosmic Background Radiation" could merely be the [Laniakea galaxy cluster's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laniakea_Supercluster) electromagnetic interactions with the region of space outside the cluster. Even the interaction of our solar system's [heliosphere](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heliosphere) with the rest of the space in the Milky Way Galaxy, produces similar images as the [Cosmic Background Radiation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosmic_background_radiation), in images obtained from radio telescopes. Therefore, pretending to be the authority on creationism using any type of a myth, or even a physical cosmology based "theory", is simply futile.  

>What's more, the universe we live in, would naturally appear as though it were expanding, to an observer within our galaxy, if galaxies were shrinking faster than the region around each galaxy. Such a possibility would also comply with existing formulations of general relativity and empirical observations of celestial objects made by human beings, till date, from within our galaxy. But, such an idea would not serve the purpose of propping up cultural heroes of the Christianized world, who came up with ideas like The Big Bang, and the ever expanding universe. 

So, why does it actually matter if the universe is expanding, or collapsing? Who even cares? Well, the answer to such questions do have a significant impact on physical calculations, when one wants to hunt down nuclear submarines and nuclear warheads in real-time, with meter level accuracy and precision, using satellites orbiting the Earth at 33,000 kilometers away from the Earth's surface, in outer space.  And, I happen to care about making those calculations correctly, "for making the world a better place." Lulz!

Whose world is about to become better or worse, and in which particular ways? Well, we will simply have to wait and see, to answer those kinds of questions as the future unfolds, won't we? 

### 1.2.6.2 The biggest of big guns 

The first step to nullifying threats from nuclear warheads is to track their location. The second step is to destroy the missile platform, as and when Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) are being launched, or before they get launched from their platforms. A gun, or a weapons system, that is bigger than intercontinental ballistic missiles, and which can simultaneously track as many warheads as necessary, is indeed a slightly complex apparatus. Biggest of big guns obviously require synthetic aperture radar pointed at Earth from outer space, to lock-onto their targets; obviously. So each physical factor that can be adjusted or controlled for improving the accuracy and precision of the targeting mechanism, needs to be meticulously fine tuned. 

Suppose a *Country M* has missile silos with armed nuclear weapons stored within its territories, and some other *Country N* does not, then *Country N* is clearly safe from ever having, any stored nuclear weapons in its territory being targeted, and detonated, because non-existent WMD cannot be targeted and detonated. So, not having stockpiles of WMD directly implies not having the risk of sudden explosions, from built and operational WMD. Just the way a suicide bomber strapped with explosives, is likely to eventually blow up into bits and pieces, a country or a mobile platform strapped with nuclear warheads, is likely to eventually blow up into bits and pieces. Furthermore, if a WMD owned or operated by *Country M* were to detonate within its stored location, or during transportation, who would *Country M* blame for that, especially if it were to become increasingly difficult to rule out accidents, and sabotage from mutineers who had stormed buildings of a Capitol Hill. 

However, the rationale presented by countries like *Country M*, has always been that all other countries like *Country N*, ought to spend their nation's resources in stockpiling WMD, so as to deter the likes of *Country M* from ever using their existing WMD against *Country N*. Or alternatively, *Country N* can willingly choose to join the group of countries like *Country M*, as a subservient client-state, that can purchase 'the benefit' of not being nuked by its 'merciful overlord', via its unconditional subordination and fealty, to the 'majesty' of its 'supreme leader.' This has been a silly and absurd rationale that has unfortunately led to an arms race in building, stockpiling, and the proliferation of advanced WMD among competing nations. Such an arms race has continued to waste resources of numerous countries throughout the world, for the purposes of "balancing out" the threat of being attacked by WMD, with the ever-present threat of a "counterattack" via globally dispersed and clandestine, WMD launching platforms. 

Therefore, if there was no such thing as a hidden or a concealed nuclear warhead launching platform, then how effectively would the menacing blackmail thrust upon peaceful nations be carried out by terrorizing countries like *Country M?* 

---

<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Top :arrow_up:][Top] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]** 
  
  **[Table of Contents][TOC]**

  [Prev]: ./01-02-05.md 
  [Top]: ./01-02-06.md#126-most-fundamental-of-all-conceptions 
  [Next]: ./01-03.md 
  [TOC]: ../README.md#table-of-contents 
  
</div>