<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Table of Contents][TOC] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]**
  
</div>

---

## 1.2.1 Fallibility 

Here I'd like to firstly discuss the topic of my fallibility as an author, and as a mortal being. Let us assume that a number of statements posited in documents published within publicly visible online repositories utilized by me, are "inaccurate", by some measure of truthfulness with respect to some chosen datum for evaluating accuracy, and from the perspective of one-or-the-other reader of such mixed-media content. Would that imply that all other statements put forward in these documents, that are yet to be scrutinized as true or false, by a competent authority or by anyone else, ought to be doubted and viewed with suspicion from the get go? Should any statement made by me in these documents, including opinionated ones that can be portrayed as being untrue or doubtful, be used for de-legitimizing any other claims I've made in these articles? 

For sure there are likely to be a number of spelling and grammatical mistakes in these writings which, can drastically change the tone as well as the meaning of the concerns being voiced by me as a whistle-blower, a survivor, and as an artist. One may argue that certain events discussed in particular sections of this series of mixed-media artwork, have left-out various details pertaining to those events, which could make the conclusions drawn by me, about the motives and methods of entities involved in those events, appear as "a leap or an exaggeration." However, details edited out form such publicly viewable articles have been made available, in the most honest and truthful form, and to the best of my abilities, within *The File.*

I can understand that the tonality, and content of my artistic expressions, are different from what is normally expected by viewers and readers of such topics. I can also say that it is somewhat normal for audiences to expect the voiced concerns of persons like myself, persons who have been mistreated or abused by state-sponsored entities, to be presented in a stymied tone, a pleading demeanor, and in a much shorter, digestible format. Those audiences will naturally view this work as being tedious to go through, and as being drastically stretched out. Here is what I'd like to convey to those audience: 

>I am putting my efforts into this type of an exercise, in my chosen non-violent approach to fighting against ongoing injustice thrust upon marginalized communities, and upon malevolently targeted victims of state-sponsored atrocities, in order to deal with the deliberate strategies of attrition and delays being used against us, by liable and culpable — Canadian, British, and American authority figures. Those authority figures are simply taking their time in properly redressing the types of issues and conflicts being highlighted via these publicly viewable articles. 

Those authorities have also been avoiding the more sensible, and honorable actions of: publicly admitting guilt and regret, for their errors and failings; formally apologizing to us; and concurrently paying the long-overdue remedies, restitution, as well as punitive damages owed to survivors and victims. Those Canadian, British, and American authorities have instead decided to yet again, do the ignoble and dishonorable thing, by dragging this situation on for years. It is likely that they will drag this situation on for decades into the future, by simply "kicking the can forward", to make some other bureaucrat address the demands of this situation. Such is indeed the likely state of affairs in the coming future, given that all other victims and survivors of severe human rights violations and state-sponsored offenses, who have been seeking remedies and reparations from Canadian, British, and American authorities, have been denied justice for more than 150 consecutive years. 

Can you imagine a rape victim humbly requesting their gang rapists to walk into a prison, and to pay for remedies and punitive damages? Well, that is pretty much the challenge in this situation. How does one "humbly request" insidious authority figures and their nexus of contracted agents, who are still committing surreptitious, genocidal activities and devastatingly harmful serious crimes, to halt their woeful wrongdoings, and to then quietly walk into a prison cell on their own, in order to serve the mandatory sentencing stipulated by *their* legal statutes, for the types and counts of violations and offenses, they have committed? 

So, I have offered a simple "exit strategy" to those authority figures, as stated in *Section 9 of the File.* Should they like to suitably close this matter, they ought to do so, before the window of opportunity to avail any type of an exit, runs out on them. 

---

<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Top :arrow_up:][Top] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]** 
  
  **[Table of Contents][TOC]**

  [Prev]: ./01-02.md
  [Top]: ./01-02-01.md#121-fallibility
  [Next]: ./01-02-02.md
  [TOC]: ../README.md#table-of-contents
  
</div>