# 1. Vedh, Saam, Daam, Dand, Bhedh 

<br>
<div align="center"> 

| Word in Hindi | Translation in English |
| :----- | :----- |
| वेद (vedh) | foundational principles or sciences |
| साम (saam) | friendship or reconciliation |
| दाम (daam) | trade or business transaction |
| दंड (dand) | penalty or retaliation |
| भेद (bhedh) | discernment |

<b>Table 1:</b> Basics of resolving or sustaining conflicts

</div>
<br>

The above set of words in Hindi language, collectively form an idiomatic expression that alludes to the possible options available to people, during the aftermath of any kind of an event, primarily towards conflict resolution. When the aftermath of an event is tragic due to a set of factors that have already transpired, and have produced damages along with some type of a conflict between opposing parties, the way forward can be achieved through a combination of vedh-saam-daam-dand-bhedh.  

## 1.1 Bhedh

Let us start with the not so obvious, and seemingly, the last option that is ever adopted by South Asians, who tend to prefer all other options compared to the concept of instigating "Bhedh" among their opposition, or among the camps of their enemies. 

In Southern Asia, Bhedh is usually associated with the idea of creating discord and division, among opponents and their surrounding social habitats. Supposedly, if all other options fail, the only sly, yet effective strategy available to you, would be to cause chaos and confusion, by sowing seeds of doubt, hatred, disgust, and a sense of betrayal, among the allies of people who stand mortally opposed to you as enemies.  

I have no idea how the above notion came to become seated within the pop-culture of Southern Asia. Perhaps it was from the TV Series called "Mahabharath" from the nineteen-nineties. Or perhaps, because the word is often translated in English as "discrimination", its allusion has come to evoke a strategy of causing hostilities to grow between two groups, in order to bring those groups under control, or to simply create mischief. I would like to instead tell you about the word's meaning which has nothing to do with underhandedly creating discriminatory animosity, among groups of people who are opposed to you, in order to weaken or destroy them. The word — Bhedh, has more to do with a decision maker's ability, "to conduct precise and accurate, measurements and comparisons" (सही तुलना कर पाना), in order to ascribe suitable value judgments, to discernible things.

A proper and worthwhile judgment regarding a situation can be produced by a decision maker, only when the factors linked to the situation, that have generated causal impacts on concerned persons, can be scoped, measured, analyzed, and critiqued in a conscientious manner. 

This immediately brings into question, the level of competence a decision maker has, or can have, in discerning the "reality" that is impinging upon them, during the process of conducting an investigation, for producing a valid, impartial, correct, and fair judgment. 

In chores involving legal decision making, the act of choosing which foundational principles and frameworks are to be applied, is the foremost task of a legal decision maker. "Conflict of laws", or the matter of choosing private laws that can be made applicable across jurisdictions where they wouldn't normally be applicable, becomes even more pertinent and significant, in international-scale conflicts. Therefore, one must be able to discern the facts and postulates of a series of events, with respect to a chosen datum, in order to subsequently promote a particular measure of conciliation, compensation, and/or penalties which can resolve the problems that have arisen, as a result of those chain-of-events. 

What is truth? What is reality? What counts as a fact? What is a datum? How is the scope of a situation to be defined? Which principles are scientifically relevant? How is relevance or linkage to be established? How can a set of events be reified during discussions and arguments? Which set of principles are to be prioritized during the course of adjudicating procedures? Which form of an escalation or a de-escalation can materialize with mere passage of time? What counts as fairness? What can be deemed as satisfactory, by whom and for whom? Which cultural and inherited norms can be used as precedence? Who is the "ultimate" decision maker or adjudicator, in resolving a dispute or a conflict? By which authority or powers can a judgment be enforced, and within which geo-political realm of influence? Is there an absolute datum with respect to which, other things can be measured or gauged? Is every observable thing an emergent phenomenon of relativistic interactions among pre-existing things that lack any spiritual essence? What is to be done when an impasse is reached due to irreconcilable factors pervading a present scenario? These are the types of questions that have challenged human beings over the ages, and have continued to be debatable among diverse groups of individuals. 

However, it is also true that certain fundamental scientific principles prevalent in the universe, underpin all possible ways of gathering as well as processing information, in order to be able to make an educated decision and a valid judgment, about any conceivable contextual matter, within every possible situation. So, fundamental principles restrict how a person may be able to discern things, and how a person can discern things restricts their ability to even comprehend sets of fundamental principles. 

Is the above statement a Catch-22? It certainly looks like one; but the more important thing to note here is that such a cardinal aspect of "reality", *within the entirety of the universe across all possible realms, in every measurable span of time,* only highlights the ways in which: any being or a collection of systems, that happens to be mortal, or even has the slightest hint of mortality within themselves, possibly cannot be "The Supreme Ruler", or "The Ultimate Judge", or "The Peace", or "The Law." 

<br>
<div align="center"> 

| Translation in English | Word in Arabic |
| :----- | :----- |
| The Supreme Ruler | (Al Maalik) اَلْمَلِك |
| The Ultimate Judge | (Al Ḥaseeb) ٱلْحَسِيبُ, (Al Ḥakam) ٱلْحَكَمُ |
| The Peace | (As Salaam) ٱلْسَّلَامُ |
| The Law | (Al 'Adl) ٱلْعَدْلُ |

<b>Table 1:</b> Titles or names of The Most Exalted, God

</div>
<br>

## 1.2 Vedh

There might as well be certain kinds of "first principles", pertaining to law and order that provide guidance on how to identify and resolve disputes, especially in grievous matters concerning the theft and destruction of people's lives and livelihoods. 

If there ever was a "truth" to be observed in this Universe, it would at least need to start with the idea that ["observability"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Observability) and ["controlablity"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Observability) are physical phenomena that allow interactions among corporeal beings.[^1] 

Before we get into a deeper discussion on the topic of foundational precepts (Vedh), let me direct your attention to the question: 

>"While talking about the concept of a mind or a psyche, have you ever managed to analyze a mind that wasn't in a body of any sort? And particularly, if a mind that you were able to interact with and analyze, was indeed in a body, wasn't that body within an environment? So where then does the mind reside? Can there ever be a body without an environment? Can there ever be a body without a mind? 
>
>Would you be conceited enough to assume that just because an entity did not present itself in a manner to satisfy your criteria of having a healthy and a sound mind, in concluding that it didn't have one, as opposed to you realizing that you simply never possessed the appropriate depth of knowledge and understanding, about how beings can merely exist in nature, without needing your permissions and categorizations about their state of existence? 
>
>More importantly, was it you that caused your existence to manifest within this universe, by choosing to come into existence prior to having any kind of a physical form? Did you truly choose to be born of your own volition, prior to even having any type of volition that was strictly yours, and only yours? How will you ever manage to prove or disprove any type of an answer to such questions to other people in a 'scientific' way?"

For millennia, there have been a large variety of ways in which people have tried to come up with answers for the above types of questions. And even if, you were able to come up with ideas or answers right now, that would satisfy you, how would those answers alter the state of knowledge about such topics for any other person on Earth, at any other conceivable point in time? 

The staggering variety in how these types of questions can be answered or even approached, naturally gives rise to "differences of opinions", and "cultural differences in worldviews" among any set of people who may come into contact with each other, and then remain in contact through some quality of interactions, for any span of time. 

What might be the maximum level of severity of physical outcomes, from any possible conflicts that may be resultant from 'struggles' between groups of people? How might those outcomes impact the lives of innocent bystanders who can't even be directly linked to conflicting interactions among any given parties that are opposed to each other? 

Over the ages, so-called wisdom on directing one's life in the best way possible, has been passed on from generation to generation, including culturally bound rules and norms on how to survive or even have the ultimate form of "success", in this universe. Given that this universe is guaranteed to present difficulties and challenges to living beings, which set of "inimitable and unerring precepts have you imbibed?" And so what if those sets of precepts are "the ultimate test of good versus bad, or legal versus illegal?" Their existence doesn't say anything about your, or my skills in being able to practice and embody them. Several cannons of knowledge and information do exist, each of which might not even be acknowledged as "the greatest of all scriptures and 'divinely bestowed' commandments", and are none-the-less adhered to by their proponents, as the purest and most pious form of dictum to all of human kind. An example of such a collection of ideals laid out on a parchment, would be any industrialized country's political constitution, especially the American one, that is often touted as the greatest boon to humanity by its followers. 

What's more, those types of codices derived from partisan activities of racist and sexist "forefather", have remained notably inconsistent and ambiguous in how they are to be interpreted by modern people, and in how they are to be implemented by future oriented societies. Worse, those enshrined documents with their demonstrably glaring flaws and problematic loopholes, are taken as flawless, foolproof, and future-proof norms fashioned by divinely ordained Supreme Leaders. Such basic issues have remained a part of day-to-day lives of people from all over the globe, for most frameworks of legal discourse, from any part of the world, present differing and opposing views on what ought to be done on the very same set of discernible facts when a challenge presents itself in the context of those facts. This has been especially true when a legal decision is to made on who is going to have final responsibility and say on how a given situation ought to be dealt with. This is why, quite often, people resort to the 'economic practice' of using aphorisms and maxims, that tend to take the place as a substitute to the need for having unambiguously recorded legal statutes, even when those aphorisms are derived from mythological stories and religiosity of a bygone era. 

One such aphorism that I heard recently was: "It is better to be an armed warrior in a garden, than to be an unarmed gardener in a battlefield." 

Sure, the above-mentioned maxim sounds sufficiently esoteric and wise, as if it ought to be adhered to by anybody who even has half the wit to be able to say it out-loud. One may then even conceive that as soon as any group of people were to start following such a saying, they would almost immediately be able to claim to have become fit, and ready, for any type of a battle, whenever and wherever required, compared to all those who failed to appreciate and follow such a truism. However, usually, wars are fought for capturing and exploiting gardeners (especially young female ones), as well as for capturing and plundering their 'gardens' and equities, by those who feel that "might is right." 

So, is there any room for non-violence in this universe? What can innocent people do once their equity, including the equity contained within their body and in their reproductive rights, is stolen by predatory brutalists, or by insidiously cunning [mentalists](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/mentalism). 

One could start with the idea that the might of treachery, guile, cruelty, and brutality isn't right nor supreme, especially in the face of साहस (courage), प्रामाणिकता (authenticity from honesty and integrity), करुणा (compassion), and दया (mercy). 

### 1.2.1 Fallibility 

Here I'd like to firstly discuss the topic of my fallibility as an author, and as a mortal being. Let us assume that a number of statements posited in documents published within publicly visible online repositories utilized by me, are false, by some measure of truthfulness and from the perspective of one-or-the-other reader of such mixed-media content. Would that imply that all other statements put forth in these documents that are yet to be scrutinized as true or false, by a competent authority or by anyone else, ought to be doubted and viewed with suspicion from the get go? Should any statement made by me in these documents, including opinionated ones, that can be portrayed as being untrue or doubtful, be used for de-legitimizing any other claims I've made in these articles? 

For sure there are likely to be a number of spelling and grammatical mistakes in these writings that can drastically change the tone as well as the meaning of the concerns being voiced by me as a whistle-blower, a survivor, and as an artist. One may argue that certain events discussed in particular sections of this series of mixed-media artwork, have left-out various details pertaining to those events which, make the conclusions being drawn by me about the motives and methods of entities involved in those events, appear as "a leap or an exaggeration." 

I can understand that the tone and content of my artistic expressions are different from what is normally expected by viewers and readers of such topics. I can also say that it is somewhat normal for audiences to expect the voiced concerns of persons like myself, persons who have been mistreated or abused by state-sponsored entities, to be presented in a stymied tone, and in a much shorter, digestible format. Those audiences will naturally view this work as being tedious to go through, and as being drastically stretched out. What I'd like to say to those audiences is, I am putting my efforts into this type of an exercise, in my chosen non-violent approach to fighting against ongoing injustice thrust upon marginalized communities, and upon malevolently targeted victims of state-sponsored atrocities, to deal with the deliberate strategies of attrition and delay being used against us by liable, and culpable: Canadian, British, and American authority figures. Those authority figures are simply taking their time in properly redressing the current situation being highlighted via these articles. Those authorities, have also been avoiding the more sensible and honorable act of publicly admitting to their wrongdoings and formally apologizing to us, and concurrently paying the long-over due restitution as well as punitive damages owed to survivors. They have instead decided to yet again, do the ignoble and dishonorable thing, by drag this situation on for years. It is likely that will drag this situation on for decades into the future, by simply "kicking the can forward" for some other bureaucrat to have to deal with any of this, given that all other victims and survivors of severe human rights violations and state-sponsored offenses seeking justice from Canadian, British, and American authorities, have been denied justice for more than 150 consecutive years.  

Can you imagine a rape victim humbly requesting their rapist to walk into a prison, and to pay for remedies and punitive damages? Well, that is pretty much the challenge in this situation. How does one "humbly request" insidious authority figures and their nexus of contracted agents, who are still committing surreptitious, genocidal activities and serious crimes, to halt their woeful wrongdoings, and to then quietly walk into a prison cell on their own, in order to serve the mandatory sentencing stipulated by *their* legal statutes, for the types and counts of violations, and offenses they have committed?   

So, I have offered a simple "exit strategy" to those authority figures, as stated in *Section 9 of the File.* Should they like to suitably close this matter, they ought to do so, before the window of opportunity to avail any type of an exist, runs out on them. 

### 1.2.2 Falsifiability

In common and legal parlance, the word "falsifying something" alludes to the act of producing counterfeit outputs for misguiding a decision maker. In this sense, something that cannot be falsified preserves its authenticity against all efforts to make its fake replicas, where the replicated items or models can have intentional or unintentional fudging, and discernible infidelity with respect to the original entity. Therefore, something that cannot be falsified is a worthy standard or a datum, in this particular linguistic sense of falsifiability.

However, in scientific discourse involving *design of experiments,* "falsifying a posited hypothesis" alludes to the act of discovering and analyzing a permutation of factual pieces of evidence, to prove or disprove the applicability of the main hypothesis being tested in comparison to the entire set of *conjugate* hypotheses, within the scope of a given *state space of variables.* Often, the main hypothesis is labeled as "the null hypothesis", and the entire set of statements or facts that form the conjugate of the null hypothesis is labeled as "the alternative hypothesis." Careful experimenters in physical sciences deliberately fashion a test bed of physical factors, to evaluate modal values of a single control variable with respect to the test conditions, wherein the Alternative hypothesis usually contains a single statement instead of a large number of combinations of a variety of possible claims. On the other hand, researchers who are not so careful, and not so scientific, use the word "hypothesis", to allude to any speculations, guesses, assumptions, or suspicions. Such careless, and carefree researchers and investigators also tend to use the word "theory", to describe the consequences of their series of guess work eventually becoming valid and true, in their own, unscientific and erring eyes. 

Researchers and investigators who aren't familiar with the mathematics and physics of "signal detection and analysis", usually tend to be associated with fields of humanities involving linguistic, historical, political, psychological, behavioral, and social studies. In such fields of studies, researchers make use of scientific sounding words in their published literature, in order to mask disingenuous, unscientific practices and models; additionally, such a systemic issue is a rather frequently occurring cultural phenomenon, across institutes in industrialized as well as industrializing nations. Now, what would be the 'alternative hypothesis' of the claim made in the previous statement?  

Putting satire aside, in all possible linguistic usages of the concept of falsification, a sense of evaluating truth versus falsehood is invoked, when a statement is posited. Evaluating the validity of a statement using scientific methods becomes especially important, when the ambiguity or uncertainty in resolving the truthfulness of a serious claim (or a statement) is palpably high; and when the consequences of not arriving at a precise as well as an accurate result from disambiguation, in a timely manner, is imminently to result in a sizable range of losses, and damages, being suffered by living beings. 

Given the importance of the task of validating claims in the arena of legal and scientific discourse, let us now only look at the way falsification is used in the physics and mathematical sense, in the philosophy of science subscribed by Westernized communities. The idea that only rigorously falsifiable statements produce worthwhile scientific discussions, which then lead to societal progress, was popularized by [Karl Popper](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karl_Popper) (apparently he has been made Sir Karl Popper). 

In (Sir) Popper's view, any worthwhile scientific or technological discovery only comes from testing the research conducted by one group of people, against that of another group working on resolving the very same set of ambiguities (or uncertainties). Popper thus categorized the entire anthropological endeavor of groups of people across human history, in their efforts to produce scientific discoveries and technological innovations, as the socio-economic and political achievement of those groups' labor. Having different groups of people across the globe become sorted into a gradient of first world, second world, and third world countries, via (Sir) Popper's view of societal achievements, and via aggressive implementation of ["Social Darwinism"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_Darwinism), has remained a popular method of rationalizing genocidal activities taken up by colonial institutes, for weeding out unwanted people from their "sphere of influence", and for explaining why some countries have remained superstitious and poor, while other countries have progressed towards becoming more 'rationally scientific' and rich. 

In colonial worldview, unsophisticated people who mostly rely on superstitions and truisms which cannot be scientifically tested, i.e. ideas and statements that cannot be falsified, are to be weeded out for wasting precious resources that could have been better utilized by people of first world countries. The colonial worldview also holds that, crude and barbaric people remain insecure under-achievers, who only begrudge and yet, violently covet, the riches of scientific nations, due to jealousy. Theology cannot be falsified, so theology is simply unscientific, and by extension of religious thought being labeled as unscientific, it is irrational or even entirely bogus. For the technocratic colonialist, the only weapon against all evil which stems from ignorance like theology and religious precepts, is the exercise of 'scientific and rational thinking.' For colonialists, promoting and evangelizing Western rational thinking, is the only method for vanquishing the darkness that festers in the 'insane' minds and hearts of ignoble peoples, who must be 'sanitized', for preserving the best interests of 'all of humanity.'

While playing on the age-old tussle between science versus religion, and by projecting the 'indisputable authority' of their cultural heroes like (Sir) Karl Popper, and [Daniel Kahneman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Kahneman), colonial institutes have continued to promote the narrative and lore, about the ways in which their reliance on falsifiable precepts, has given them the scientific and technological superiority, to rule over the unscientific plebes and cretins of this universe. Even non-fiction as well as fiction based work, produced by the likes of [(Sir) Salman Sushdie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salman_Rushdie), have continued to promote the idea that any cannon of text can be trivialized or caricatured for literary purposes, and for the sake of practicing liberal arts; but mostly with the colonial motives of questioning, and casting doubt on the validity of socio-political frameworks being used by communities originating from the global South, and the global East. 

Non-fiction as well as fiction based literature promoted by colonial institutes, have continued to belittle Southern and Eastern cultures, by constantly attempting to invalidate the concept of "sacred norms and precepts", and by thoroughly trivializing the sanctity of holy scriptures sacred to non-Euro-centric cultures of the world. Theological belief systems adopted by non-Anglican faith groups are even pathologized by various state-sponsored entities and private organizations, in countries like Briton and Canada. Furthermore, colonial institutes and alliances still assert that, it is incumbent upon them to protect and propagate their superior form of rational, aesthetic, and scientific approach towards daily living, and towards maintaining globalized state-craft, 'for making the world a better place.' This type of rhetoric constitutes the central dogma adopted by imperial and predatory entities, for deploying colonial forces to uproot 'superstition', by forcibly intervening in an invasive manner, especially for 'rectifying the dysfunctions of governments in countries with backwardly and jealous, diminutive peoples.' 

Colonial armed forces and interventionists, have continued to overtly and covertly supplant institutes within 'emerging and third world economies', for the purposes of establishing the rule of "scientifically vetted common laws built upon a system of 'universal values'." Colonialists frequently claim that their brutal and sly methods of snatching resources and equity from around the world, while repressing indigenous populations, have always been and are still justifiable, in order to elevate the socio-economic situation of 'stubbornly crude, wild, uncivilized and barbaric nations.' 

For colonialists and supremacists, not intervening in the societal functions of institutions in "undeveloped and under-developed economies", will impede the progress, or even threaten the existence of humanity as a whole. Worst of all, not colonizing economically languishing nations of 'the realm', will most certainly rob from the magnificent glory, and 'the global cultural dominance' earned by supreme leaders of first world nations, for making their countries 'great (again)'. The glorious feats achieved by the leaders of 'the democratic free world', via their arduous sacrifices made towards 'scientific governance' of globalized economies, while strictly maintaining "the international, rules based world order", cannot be allowed to decline by abandoning "the 'noble chore' of colonizing 'lawless frontiers' of this universe." 

So, let us falsify falsifiability. By Karl Popper's definition of falsifiable statements, a statement that cannot be shown to be false by conditions stipulated under at least one worldview, is said to be non-falsifiable. Also, non-falsifiable statements usually cannot be be ratified or reified, via empirical tests. Consequently, according to supporters of Popper's views, non-falsifiable statements are unscientific and are unworthy of being evaluated by scientific methodologies. Therefore, if we posit that, "only falsifiable statements are scientific" as the null hypothesis, then the task of falsifying it would require us to show that there exists at least one statement which is demonstrably scientific and true, under *all* conceivable worldviews. In our "thought experiment", we can simply thrust the idea that mathematical axioms cannot be false under any conceivable worldview, wherein those axioms form the basis for being able to generate a worldview in the first place, and then be done with it, but we will dwell into this topic of falsifying falsifiability, a bit more rigorously, for the purposes of being sound and scientific. 

Take for example, the statement that, "a point is a geometric object that has no further parts." There is no empirical method to find such a mathematical object in its material form that is somehow tangible, and isn't entirely abstract, with respect to human sense and sensibilities. Such a statement and definition about the concept of a point, forms the basis of all geometry! We have just now shown that the entirety of the mathematical field and human experience known as geometry, is built upon and relies on: <ins>a non-falsifiable statement.</ins> So any of us who has ever done anything even remotely related to geometry, must be an unscientific moron, to have relied on the 'superstition' of mathematical principles and axioms, right? 

Even mathematical theorems derived from axioms are not falsifiable and yet, they are not categorized as nonobjective and unscientific knowledge, by any measure of objectivity and factual truthfulness, because they are necessary building blocks for evaluating the rest of human knowledge acquired in the name of science or anything else. 

Hence, should we bother to retain the null hypothesis that only falsifiable statements are scientific? As proven from the above discussion containing 'a highly economical thought experiment', we can confidently reject the viewpoint encapsulated via the given null hypothesis. The alternative hypothesis that some statements which are markedly non-falsifiable, are indeed scientific and even necessary for having a scientific discourse, can be adopted without reservations of any kind. Yes, our day-to-day lives depend on absolutes that can never be proven to be wrong or false, under any humanly conceivable circumstances. Now isn't that swell, and simply Grand? 

### 1.2.3 Trust and Reliance 

[Work in progress]

[^1]: By the way, observability and controllability are not two sides of a duality. Controllability is a proper subset of observability because all controllable system states are necessarily observable, even though not all observable states of a system being analyzed are likely to be controllable via the conscious directives of the observer, or the systems analyst.  