## 0E. The Colonialist's Cookbook

The most significant recipe in a colonialist's cookbook is that of, *"Bugger thy neighbor and cause brain-drain."*

The reason for following such a recipe is to ensure that "the inequality of human beings" persists, even in the modern era. The idea of equal status among all peoples in the context of basic human rights and equitable treatment via the application of a uniform legal framework, is an affront to the racist ideologies promoted by colonialists and imperialists. How can a colonial or an imperial 'Supreme Leader' justify their superiority, along with the assumed legitimacy of their 'master race', if the concepts of egalitarianism and anti-racism are taken as valid and are prioritized by citizens of a modern republic? 

Concepts such as "a republic", and "anti-racism", are among the most severe of existential threats that could have ever come into existence, against all colonialist designs and plans concerning humanity and human ecology. To make sure that such a threat is diminished and quashed all together, the supremacist agenda only needs to find some part of Earth's geography, where human beings are more financially burdened with a lack of physical defenses against invasions, and to simply invade that region using any conceivable excuse. Whether that excuse be the "Doctrine of Discovery", "liberation of repressed people seeking democracy", or "anti-terrorism", the eventual goal is to desecrate and devastate the region's population, so that corrosive effects of ecological poverty and impoverishment, prevent the invaded people from ever achieving social upliftment. In fact, people invaded in this manner, practically never manage to achieve basic literacy and physical health, from being ravaged and defiled by their 'liberators.' Consequently, their "status" remains unequal, to that of the lords and hereditary rulers who have managed to "gain an upper hand" against them by ruthlessly pillaging innocent peoples of Earth. 

Having thus proven the inequality between human beings who do have military-might to commit genocides, versus those who are so impoverished that they cannot even envision a future for themselves other than one in which they are a serf or a slave to their hostage takers, supremacists simply repeat the recipe against every neighboring country, year-after-year, century-upon-century. Their simple goal, is to maintain the global-scale pyramid scheme of generating impoverished slaves who know nothing other than to be servile and sheepish. 

According to the colonialist's cookbook, should a talented or gifted individual somehow arise, among deprived serfs and slaves against all odds, then, such an individual can be funneled to a job or a vocation that is more socially and financially rewarding, at a location which is geographically closer the citadel of the Supreme Leader's indoctrinated posies. Ultimately, the design of such a recipe is to make the serfs and slaves yearn to become the footstool of their mortal master, and to unconditionally serve 'the foremost representative of God on Earth.' 

So, this is why every nation that fought to regain its freedom from colonial and imperial forces, merely gets to despondently complain about "brain-drain", into the void of this universe, and about how their nation's talent is being baited, snared, and depleted, by old-school supremacists disguised as humanitarian democrats from The West. Those so-called humanitarian vanguards of international peace, order, and freedom of expression, possibly cannot be phased by the vacuous complaints of "nationalists" in erstwhile colonies. This is because, supremacists know that they can consistently find a cowardly and spiritually bankrupt bureaucrat, within each-and-every agency of a targeted nation, to have that sycophant slowly eat away the constitutional basis of the foundational meaning of a republic, exactly like a termite, to then have that corrupt and corruptible agent deliver a convenient backdoor into the hollowed out institutions of the languishing republic.  

One would think that if a genuine "supreme leader" were to exist with actual capacities of a superior being, then that purported supreme leader would never turn out to be a mere predator or a parasite, and would instead be a truly caring and giving person, who would firstly prioritize every means to provide customized prosthesis to the physically disabled or impaired, along with financial aid to the economically destitute. But instead, supremacists only like to portray themselves as the 'righteous father figure' who punishes 'the lazy' and 'the indolent.' 

All 'delinquents' who do not use their 'Christianized will power' to overcome their economic, social, and physical circumstances, ought to be smote by their overlord, right? Even though, the dire circumstances of poverty and distress surrounding a large portion of the Earth's global population were cunningly or belligerently thrust upon unassuming masses of people by bigoted supremacists, causing those poor people to become refugees or migrants, those very same supremacists continue to blame the downtrodden and the molested, of being bottom feeders who 'unfairly' expect to be taken care of by a "welfare economy." Those supremacists also happen to be the ones who keep the vicious cycle of warfare and hatred running on the literal blood-sweat-and-tears, of innocent children and young victims caught in the throws of sectarian violence. 

If those young human beings never even get to see a worthy example of a proper school, or a peaceful home, how will they ever manage to develop as a creative individual, with an appropriate sense of self-worth and a healthy outlook on their future? The best they can ever expect to gain in their lifetime, is an overseer who at least, does not rape and physically abuse them on top of financially exploiting their labors. 

Such are the dire circumstances of too many human beings on this Earth, who won't manage to ever see their way out of poverty, because by the time they even manage to utter their first word, or gesture their simplest creative expressions, they will already be in the possession of a fully indemnified genocidal fiend, as a soulless piece of chattel. 

### Time To Rip Apart and Shred The Colonialist's Cookbook 

Each of you who are reading this article, much like me who has written it, aren't likely to be particularly better off than those refugees escaping war-torn regions of this planet, even if you are a minister of the parliament of a country subordinate to NATO. 

In fact, in all likelihood, you are a poor analyst working in a Canadian intelligence agency, who was handed the miserable chore of counting all of the "red flags" in the large volume of materials being published online by me. I'm going to guess that you would have rolled your eyes while reading the previous sentence. So, out of some pity for your work and your role, let me plainly lay out why "gray flags" are much more tiresome to handle, than executing an existing routine from your handbook, against an easy to identify red flag. Why? Well, so that you can then go to your boss, and put in a request for being given more resources in dealing with, whatever this is, given that you have now come to know how the cyber-malware you installed into my computers got picked up and digested by a number of other country's agencies, whose surveillance software was already listening in on my computers, because I tapped on the shoulders of those giant agencies via Twitter, just the same way I tapped on your forehead. 

Now, members from all of those agencies will get to sit and eat popcorn, or their favorite snack for pass-time, while they get to watch me do what I do best. 

All of the materials disclosed in this folder - https://github.com/true-hindsight/grim-realities/tree/main/disclosed are entirely truthful, and remain beyond a shadow of doubt, by every measure of truthfulness and honesty. 

The whole point of this endeavor, for obtaining legitimate and worthwhile justice for peoples wronged by North American institutes, is to place all available evidence of institutionalized violations and abuses in a publicly viewable, online repository, so that there can be no room for any of the treacherous ploys orchestrated by those harmful institutes, for destroying or covering up such evidence, within the light of the international community's keenly observing mind, and its ever-watchful eye. 

Use of a project management system like GitHub has been the only accessible option for furthering this work, because: till date there has never been a recognized court of law (including the International Criminal Court at the Hague in Netherlands, the Supreme courts of the US, the UK, or Canada, and the numerous courts concerned with international laws and human rights abuses in the European Union), that have ever managed to even hear, let alone properly prosecute and halt the ongoing, industrially coordinated genocidal activities committed against internationals by state-sponsored agencies and private organizations, belonging to USA and Canada. 

As such, meager courts within "emerging economies" get to have the 'privilege and honor', of being able to enjoy the right to be quiet, stand-down, and put-up with whatever gets shoveled onto them, by The Glimmering True North of First World countries. 

Furthermore, legislators and court officials in countries like India, have yet to produce a viable method or an instrument, to justify their "sovereign right" to defend their local as well as overseas citizens, from the range of proven organized crimes being orchestrated against them in a targeted way, from within North American territories. A functioning legal mechanism to actually prosecute known international criminals, terror organizations, and hate groups operating from within North America, is far from current day reality for 'Third World countries.' In all seriousness and factual openness, it has taken the main authority figures among Indian government officials, decades to finally realize that they don't need to put up with the pretense, arrogance, contemptuousness, and conceitedness, of Canadian wrongdoers protected by North American agencies. Decades! 

During such time periods, American and Canadian diplomats have never even bothered to, and still don't care about presenting any truthful arguments or honest rebuttals, to counter any of the allegations of felonies and genocidal activities being committed by members of their public service units and private organizations against international students, minorities, and migrant workers. Diplomats and other responsible officials from American and Canadian governments, merely act dismissive, or make empty promises for 'willing to look into the situation', or they cunningly put up a defense of being a blind-deaf-mute, in the face of indisputable evidence of their agents being caught red-handed in international-scale crimes; and then, officials from countries like India, Turkey, Brazil, and South Africa continue to have no come-back, against that type of blunt and placid, treachery. Of course, that has mainly been the norm and status-quo within the "international rule-based order", because of the ever-present threat from American and British agencies, of them being able to withdraw their "support and aid", from poor and needy countries that 'insolently' speak up against the daily abuses being thrust upon non-European refugees and migrants. 

However, whether colonialists, imperialists, and racists like it or not, countries that aren't beholden to American financial and military support, will continue to become ever more independent, and self-sufficient. Likewise, fewer and fewer groups of nations will ever need to rely upon the feudalistic protections offered by alliances like AUKUS. 

So in all of this, what exactly is it that I do, that is supposedly the best within some category of work or activity?   

I used to be particularly skilled at designing and justifying the foundations for advanced defense projects, as a sub-contractor of sub-contractors, of US-led research and development groups. After discovering how my labors and work outputs had been illegitimately used by those feckless employers in committing cross-border mass murders, and in building Blue Sky projects for a warped American military concept called, "global full-spectrum-domination", I tried to put as much distance between those murderous groups and myself. I then discovered that I have simply been, only one of many tens of thousands of wronged migrants and workers, who keep getting abused by those types of unethical employers each year. 

However, no matter how hard I have tried to stay away from those types of wrongdoers, I've been repeatedly attacked by them, wherever I relocate to. I eventually understood the main reason for the conflict between them and myself; they simply never intended to leave any place on Earth and even within the entire solar system in peace, and unmolested or undisturbed, for those who have a natural birth-right to be free of predatory capitalism, and for those who have no desire to become bridled under the thumb of supremacists and racists. Indeed, the only job of supremacists in this universe, since the bronze age in human history, has been to destroy the lineage and home of all freeborn people who can possibly pose a challenge to their so-called 'god given authority, to rule over the entire world.' 

Now, I don't seem to be doing anything substantial or significant, using such writings with run-on sentences, because I am practically as useful as a fool, to any group of educated people, aren't I? At least, that is likely to be the most 'lucid' assessment, of any personnel among Canadian or American anti-terror and investigative agencies tasked with reading any of this. Or perhaps, they might argue that, these types of articles are "a text-book example", of materials being published in preparation for... for something. 

Who even knows what that something is, or could ever turn out to be? But if we were to factor in the paranoia and sense of guilt that a number of Canadian wrongdoers have demonstrated in attempting to cover up their shameful deeds, specifically ones whose names and malpractices have been documented in such online publications, then maybe, just maybe, I'm doing some kind of a thing, that could cause a few feathers of some Canadian bigwigs to get slightly ruffled. But then, what type of a worthwhile outcome would that ever produce? 

I certainly am not leveraging the hypocrisy and pretentiousness of Canadian state-sponsored bad-actors, to cause them to expose more of their bigoted policies, strategies, tools, and tactics that they have been stealthily using against peoples of color, especially the murderous ones targeted against Asians and Muslims, am I? 

So, can exposing the truth about their ugliness and malice, by holding a mere candle and a mirror up to their scornful faces, be sufficient in halting them? No. It can't be, because it hasn't been, for centuries. Their leaders are utterly shameless and even proud of being the most heinous and ruthless killers, compared to all of human kind. Only some of their half-indoctrinated followers are still slightly ashamed of being actual neo-Nazis. Additionally, there are already many people in this world who don't need any more evidence of the normalized bigotry and wickedness, embedded within key North American institutes. Existing survivors of their hostile and pernicious deeds, already have first-hand experience in bearing the scars of their animosity, after having lost too much of our lives and too many of our loved ones to their clandestine acts of enmity and racism. What is currently needed, as always, is a legal and binding instrument, that will curtail and soon thereafter, permanently end the vicious and vile designs of their state-sponsored murders and human rights violations. 

Who or what, is to then implement and enforce that legal instrument, if it were to come into existence within our lifetime? And what exactly will ensure its warranted and just nature? Will it possibly involve a method that is non-violent or non-militaristic? 

All of the above types of questions eventually boil down to the topic of: increasing number of nuclear armaments being stashed in various parts of the world, by NATO and its allies. That is because an entity with appropriate authority to enforce a legal instrument to penalize and deter international-scale crimes against humanity, will obviously need to demonstrate a capacity to withstand the threat to humanity posed by weapons of mass destruction. The US, cannot be that authority because it hasn't managed to get out of its own way, to prevent itself from committing violations of existing non-proliferation treaties. Compared to the US, clearly, India has never installed nuclear warheads in other countries for "maintaining international peace and accord." But then Indian diplomats and government officials get easily swayed by "monarchs." 

Most importantly, the Japanese have been the largest group of people in human history, till date, to have ever faced the horrifying consequences of a genocide being committed against them, by the use of thermo-nuclear weapons. All of the Pacific islanders and Polynesian peoples murdered and displaced by the American military, for nuclear weapons tests, have never been properly accounted for. Meanwhile, certain American groups have been the only [revelrous and gleeful ones,](https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/i9xQTJ-kbUk?start=315&allow=%22autoplay%22&autoplay=1) to have ever committed a genocide using radioactive weapons of mass destruction, in Japan. Those gleeful groups have maintained all sorts of specious reasons for why those weapons "had to be used", to put a definitive end to a global-scale war among battling nations. That war never ended, it merely continued in various other modalities between geo-political "super powers." The racist ideologies adopted by supremacists for perpetuating that war, is still being used by them to define the overall purpose of their nation's existence. 

Supremacists have continued to portray themselves as the overlord of, the god of death. Whether your culture personifies a deity of death as "Shinigami", or as, "Yama-raja", supremacists do certainly paint a quaint picture, portraying themselves as a righteous protagonist capable of puppeteering the god of death, via their submarines and inter-continental ballistic missiles. 

That is why, I have always wondered, if the supremacists of this world were to suddenly loose their capacity to orchestrate a "second strike", using radiological or biochemical weapons of mass destruction, would they still have the cocky and contemptuous attitude they have continued to display thus far, against peoples from all other countries who have non-Anglo-Saxon heritage? 

Having opined that, would you, dear Canadian National Defense Department, consider yourself to be among those who would like to revel and be gleeful about committing genocides using overt or covert methods? I would like to hope that you wouldn't. But you have otherwise been dismissive of the suffering thrust upon victims of Canadian state-sponsored violations, and have been complacent in halting those crimes and fouls. You have thus, played an integral role in ongoing genocidal activities of Canadian agencies. Let me now highlight few details concerning the mechanisms used by Canadian organizations for orchestrating certain types of genocidal activities, that you have conveniently hidden from the rest of the world, without mincing my words and without hedging my sentences. 

When the set of operatives who tried to entrap me, and attempted to maliciously frame me as a terrorist, by first having me arrested under fabricated and false pretexts in May of 2020, they attempted to use an ambush tactic involving drug induced pliability and subversion within a Canadian state-sponsored medical facility. That insidious ambush tactic was, and has continued to be orchestrated specifically, against Muslims in Canada, out of sheer prejudice and Islamophobia. 

It just so happens that numerous members of Canadian armed forces, who are honorably or dishonorably discharged from their roles and duties in the Canadian military, tend to take up private consulting and contracting business via commercial security firms, for physical or cyber-security work. That sounds fairly legitimate and unproblematic doesn't it? However, when those unregulated groups of ex-military contractors and 'consultants', started to teach ambush tactics to public service units in the healthcare sector, they committed a gross violation of the ethos and trustworthiness of medical practitioners, and of the entire category of sciences concerned with medicine. As they have continued to willingly commit that type of violation, using meticulous strategies with cyber-warfare tools at their disposal, throughout the Canadian healthcare sector, they have only caused consumers to become weary of healthcare service providers, due to repeated violations of consumer trust. 

Canadian healthcare providers who have continued to breach their Hypocritical Oath, day-after-day, because they are being trained to do so, isn't merely a "sad turn of events." That type of industrially orchestrated genocide with its insidious forms of hidden prejudice, against religious and ethnic minorities, has come into existence only because of the murderous racists still being launched into civil society by your professional cadres. Should you be interested in the "proof" of said genocidal violations, you can read the files posted in the given folder called "Disclosed." 

The tone of this document isn't pejorative, it is forthright in ascribing blame of coordinated malice to deliberately trained professional state-sponsored groups operating in Canada, where admonishment and condemnation is rightly due, and deserved. 

There is of course the matter of restoring justice, and reconstituting faith of violated consumers, in Canadian public service professionals, because those professionals have remained state-authorized and state-sponsored agents in an overall fiduciary context, and within a services market where Canadian private clinics and hospitals, aren't exactly private and independent of the state. Willfully and forcefully using hospitals, school, and "residential schools" to commit debilitating and ruinous harms against targeted people, seems to be a deplorable habit of Canadian institutes, retained from colonialism, that still hasn't been rectified. So, try not to be disgracefully uncaring and nonchalant, about this ongoing genocidal issue being orchestrated via the use of tax-payer monies. 

I'm not interested in the conniving denials and deflectionary tactics shored up by culpable organizations, and by their employed or contracted units regarding their malpractices and surreptitious activities. At this point in time and within the situation involving such heinous crimes and coordinated violations, the only relevant thing remaining is to see whether the more conscientious members among Canadian public services will adopt the necessary courage, to provide victims and survivors the required remedies and restitution along with an award of punitive damages, and wither the required punitive measures will be administered to punish those coordinated malicious groups, which happen to include: police officers, social service workers, healthcare providers, ex-military contractors, and Justices of The Peace in Ontario, Canada. 

Canada is to pay special attention to the fact that, being entrusted with Judgeship does not absolve nor indemnify Justices of The Peace from the abuses of their public office, especially in their pernicious acts leading to serial murders and molestation of profiled and targeted people. It only makes the crimes committed by those Justices and court officers, more severely punishable by nature's laws, should they remain unrepentant and dishonest.  

Should you, the Canadian federal government along with its provincial agencies, choose to act cowardly in the face of such ongoing genocides, and somehow fail to properly redress the matter in an expedient manner, to then knowingly allow such state-sponsored murderous activities and violations to continue, particularly against Muslims and people of color, or against vulnerable persons, then, there won't be any further reasons for me to remain neutral with respect to Canada. Yes, this is me being neutral even after having withstood extreme hostility and animosity directed at my diaspora, by fiendish public service units, which already led to the death of my child, and destruction of my home and family, due to premeditated attacks performed by those insidious agents and agencies deployed by *you.* 