## 0F. No Need to Tolerate Genocidal Fiends and Usurpers

The foundational and prominent flaw within Canadian society, is exemplified by the fact that there is no such thing, known as, "Canadian cuisine." [Poutine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WafWphQzUlo) is a dish, it is not a cuisine, no matter how you try to present it. 

Authentic Canadian cuisine does not exist, and it might never even come into existence in the future, because the indigenous and First Nations peoples of Northern America who could have brought it into existence, got murdered en mass, by puritanical fiends from Western Europe. That is the permanent and indelible history of Canada. 

So, what have modern Canadians chosen to do about that history? White-wash it and cover it up with *poppy flowers,* only to continuously orchestrate that historical malevolence against current-day Muslims, Asians, minority groups, people of color, and all other remaining indigenous and First Nations peoples in Canada. Simple. 

In the literal context of available food in Canada, Anglo-Saxon and Nordic Canadians insist that Canada is a melting pot, or a patchwork quilt, or some such trite analogy about "social cohesion", to talk about how migrant and refugee populations from the world have brought their heritage to Northern America, to then cause a variety of new versions of dishes and tastes to emerge via "organic and casual" intermixing of those cultures. That is the typical cop-out spewed by plagiarists and usurpers who are given to the bad habit of cultural misappropriation. 

In the broader context of living circumstances within Canada, the most obvious fact, plainly observable among Canadian cities, has continued to highlight that forced assimilation of multi-cultural communities of the world into Edwardian, Victorian, and puritanical customs of Western Europe, has only caused migrant and refugee populations pitted against each other within impoverished neighborhoods, to grow into mangled sets of ghettos. Gerrymandering those sets of ghettos within cities like Kitchener-Waterloo and Bramalea, Ontario, has only caused the socio-economic situation of denizens in those types of cities, to consistently become worse. This is because the ethnic, religious, linguistic, and economic divide, enforced by Canadian legislators, happens to be reflected in the physical and political barriers imposed during the planning and construction of municipal districts, and of infrastructure projects. Those barriers have continued to marginalize peoples of color and other minorities, who are forced to live in under-serviced areas of Canadian cities as opposed to the more 'privileged', Anglo-Saxon and Nordic groups. To that effect, the country-wide housing crisis existent in Canada, is only one example of the outcome of maintaining classism and racism through bigoted legislation and bad public policies. 

In the much broader, national security context of Canada's survival as a country and as an economic bloc, the people who could have improved its overall situation during worsening climate change, were murdered en mass, by European settlers, and have continued to be marginalize or neglected by, currently main-stream Canadian colleges and professional organizations. Yes, those very same indigenous and First Nations peoples eradicated from North America, were practically the only ones who knew proper methodologies for managing natural resources of forests, lands, and water bodies, compared to predatory capitalists who slashed and burned through Canada's natural heritage for enriching British, American, Dutch, and French colonialists. The authentic cuisine of a region requires unsullied ingredients from its natural ecology, and so do activities involving physical defenses from rapidly changing geo-political and climatic conditions. 

>Illegitimate, stolen, adulterated, and impaired ingredients incorporated within healthcare goods, food supplies, and ordinances, do not provide the necessary vitality and potency, that are to be derived from those components for sustaining daily living. 

Human activities throughout the world have continued to devastate wildlife and natural environments, but more so, in the heavily industrialized and highly unregulated borderlands of the US, and the UK. American and British legislators and lobby groups, have consistently found ways to handicap and lessen the effectiveness of laws and regulations concerning environmental protection and social equality, among countries like Chile, Canada, Mauritania, Nigeria, Congo, South Africa, India, Myanmar, and Australia. The basic rationale adopted by American and British corporations to do so while subduing those countries, has centered on the economics of predatory capitalism, through which, an exploitative regime gets to rapidly grow in financial riches, technological advancements, and militaristic powers at an exponential rate, compared to a non-exploitative regime that supposedly, only gets to "live in mud-huts and dark caves." 

These days, among the regions of the world that have been, and are being ravaged by colonial and imperial forces, countries like India and China have sought to carve an independent path towards prosperity, diversity, and ecological sustainability, while trying to maintain their cultural uniqueness; and other countries like Canada and Australia, have turned towards accepting a subordinate position within socio-economic and military alliances with "The West", by sacrificing their true cultural identity and uniqueness. 

Tell me, would you genuinely be able to visually identify and distinguish an Australian, within a crowd of Canadians and Americans? 

Wiping out people's ethnic traditions, linguistic identity, and religious beliefs and customs, by supplanting those aspects of a human being's personhood with "values" espoused by western European nations, using every type of force, guile, or deception, is the essential and ultimate goal of colonialism. Force-feeding predatory capitalism and politically bastardized versions of Christianity to the world, merely happens to be a convenient and clever way for supremacists "to manifest their ultimate goal, and 'destiny'." 

So, are there any actual reasons for conscientious peoples of the world, to tolerate the bigotry and malice of supremacists being imposed upon humanity and global ecology? None that are valid and worth accepting. 