## 0G. Statement of Intent and Purpose

Has there ever been a shortage of people who have humbly and politely spoken to you or to any ministers of parliament, about putting an end to Canada's ongoing state-sponsored violations and international crimes? Has no other person ever gently notified you that Canada still owes reparations with compounding interests, to survivors and victims of those numerous crimes and offenses? 

Am I genuinely the very first person to have brought such topics to your knowledge and attention? So, what difference would it have ever made, if I were to do so, politely and gently through formal or informal channels, like the rest of the tens of thousands of survivors, activists, and advocates have done before me, during the past six decades? 

The most egregious violations committed against me by operatives and agencies in Ontario, Canada, similar to the ones they have been committing against indigenous peoples and other ethnic minorities out xenophobia and racism, were that of: causing the death of my child; causing loss of consortium with my spouse and business partner; destroying my business and means of earning a living; defiling my home and desecrating my place of worship via surreptitious home invasions; thrusting me into severe poverty and undue distress; assassinating my character by painting me as a violent terrorist mercenary; illegitimately detaining me and then torturing me using biochemical methods to cause reproductive harms; causing long-term debilitation; attempting to entrap me under duress and under the influence of forcibly administered overdose of narcotic drugs in captivity; forcibly repressing me during Ramadan of May-2020 with the explicitly verbalized intent to see what I would from being violently deprived of peace and security, in a degrading manner, to then deprive me of my humanity of the ability to practice religious supplications on Eid, specifically because of my Muslim heritage and Islamic beliefs; chasing me out of Canada under the pains of death and threats of murderous violence against my family. None of those insidious violations involving breach of trust committed via the use of systematic tools and coordinated efforts, among judiciary and public service units along with their contractors in Canada, were "a minor infraction" or "a tiny mistake!"     

While your hired analysts attempt to categorize production of such sets of articles as "narcissistic delusions" or as an "idle rant", without having had access to a file called "scenarios.md", they ought to ask themselves if there could possibly ever be a person on this Earth, who could be narcissistic or delusional, compared to Donald Trump or Adolf Hitler? Plus, artificial intelligence based automated vectors succeed, by being automated, and by removing the human operator from all operational steps. An AI designer and an artist such as myself, isn't even anthropocentric, so never mind being self or ego-centric. Topics and automated vectors illustrated in the file called scenarios, are not dependent on any one particular human-in-the-loop, at any point in time within the cyber domain. 

Plus, I have continued to maintain my restraint and patience, in acknowledging the dignity and importance of your offices. However, if I were required to compromise for the sake of compromising, and in the interest of "letting things go", my capacity to maintain patience and restraint, and to act in the way of mercy, would be the foremost things I would compromise on, and let go of. For things such as patience, restraint, and mercy are wasted upon habitual offenders and absconding debtors, especially upon those who continue to commit genocidal high crimes and misdemeanors against vulnerable people, with their abject contempt and disregard for all of the notifications and warnings they've been given, politely or otherwise. 

Therefore, my intentions haven't been to merely make you red in the face, with a few quaint or silly memes on a social-media channel, my only intent and purpose, is to obtain proper justice, against the injuries, harms, and damages that my family and I were made to suffer at the hands of colluding agents and agencies operating in Canada. 

>For now, you can rest assured and be happy that I am not a specter, because even though there is such a thing like "Casper The Friendly Ghost", there is simply no such thing as a friendly specter. 

<br>

<p align="center">
— End of File —
</p>